Who's got a pen? I need to steal a pen from somebody. Can you tell me a pen, brother?
From Burbank, California, at Starburn's Castle, it's the very first time that Harmontown is in session
from the beautiful confines of the weird, warehouse-y thing that is Starburn's Castle.
Let's bring out Spencer Crittenden and Charlie.
What up? Oh, yeah. It feels good, doesn't it? It feels in session.
It feels extra sexy. Speaking of extra sexy, let's bring out the mayor.
The mayor of Harmontown is Dan Harmon. Thank you.
All right. Thanks for joining us at a temporary location or whatever, an experimental location.
Is it not permanent? What's the status? I don't know. I don't make big moves. I work organically.
Why do they call you big moves, Harmon? It's an ironic nickname. In prison, they called me tiny,
because the average height is 5'5", and I was like, you know.
So how was prison? Prison was great. What were you in for again?
I started watching the show, what the hell is it called, World's Most Dangerous Prisons,
or Inside Them or something like that? It's called Inside Them, Colin, World's Most Dangerous Prisons.
It's some guy who is kind of, he's from wherever the, what the shrimpy guy,
what's his name, he's in the phone booth thing where he's got to talk on the phone or he gets shot.
Colin Farrell. Colin Farrell. It's this guy that looks like him.
He's shrimpy?
He's a little shrimp. I don't think he's a large man. I don't think Colin Farrell.
They call him a moose.
There's a guy and then he goes and he gets himself locked up in the world's most dangerous prisons
throughout the world. There's a prison in Honduras, I guess that's the murder capital of the world.
That's probably an easy title to claim, like best pizza or whatever.
But the prison there, it's like built for like, I don't know, let's say 70 people,
I'm pulling numbers out of my ass. There's like 700 people in it.
It's like very overcrowded as most prisons are. We are generating more bad people than good people these days.
It's a buyer's market. They, at a certain point, it's like, it's escaped from New York.
They like, the guards pulled out and they just like rolled wooden batons like by the box in there
and said like, whoever the people you trust the most are, they're the new guards.
And so some of the murderers have sticks and that's their system and it works really well.
Like the guards can't go in there. They go in there at night to lock up.
I guess they have like, it's sort of like...
Wouldn't the bad guys get the sticks first?
The bad guys have the sticks, as one would argue in all of society.
It just kind of tends to be that way. Good guys don't want sticks.
And so in this prison, some of the rapists and murderers have been deputized to beat the other ones that get out of line.
But they're deputizing each other? They're saying, hey, crazy guy, you like sticks, how do they pick it?
I don't know how they picked it. There's a guy at the top that insists he profits nothing from it.
Who says, well, telling you, if you want a bed, it costs $135 and all this stuff.
The whole place has a kind of... I mean, there was no... Everyone's like lifting weights and everything's very scary
and everyone's kind of leering at you. But what you didn't see was like mass chaos.
And it was just this Colin Farrell looking guy going like, oh, I'm filling buckets of water.
And then he would go and talk to all the mucky mucks within this system, none of whom are guards.
And then he'd shoot pool with the guards on the outside of the system that the guards are guarding but can't get in.
The guards' job? To make sure that all 700 of these people don't at some point go, hey, there's 700 of us.
Let's all escape at the same time. That is their single task is to keep that day from happening.
How they do that? I guess it has something to do with the fact that what separates the prison from the rest of Honduras,
which is like a chain link fence that you had at your grade school playground, which drugs are just flying back and forth over the top of it.
I think the people in there are kind of happy. The prisoners are... I mean, they're like...
They'd like to be out if they could leave any time they wanted, but they can't leave any time they wanted,
so they've created a society for themselves that includes weekend-long conjugal visits.
The wives and children come to visit them. They showed that weekend happening.
And there's no, if you fuck with the wives or children during that weekend, it's like...
Obviously, there's repercussions. There's repercussions if you piss off fucking murderers that have sticks.
I'm doing... The law is laid down within that prison, and then the guards shooting billiards with the host of the show
who's saying, like, how's it... Do you guys want to have control back?
Because one time they tried to take control back, and everyone just went...
And waved their shirts around like strippers and threw garbage cans at them, and they had to leave.
They're like, okay, all right, we'll come look for drugs later. And they were like, yay, we're in prison!
We're free!
How do you think you would handle prison if you had to do, like, real time, like federal time?
I would start by killing myself the day I was sentenced to prison, because guys like me do not...
No matter what movies you've seen.
Now, okay, let's get specific. Day one, you're in prison. You go, okay, I want to kill myself.
I'm going to be here for six years. I want to kill myself. How do you do it?
Wait, no, no, no, I do it in court when the judge says, you're going to print, and I go, bang, bang, bang!
I take his gavel and I stick it through my eyeball.
Because if he did the print, I knew the rest of the word would be isn't.
So I'm just like, gouge, gouge.
Do you think you could make it from the desk you sit at to the gavel?
Without a bailiff?
I mean, look, if Batman was in the gallery, you know, in one movie where Batman couldn't even make it
to protect Harvey Dent from getting his face toed.
Remember that movie? Batman's in court.
It was Batman outfit.
They explained Harvey Dent's turning into Two-Face.
It was one of those older Batman movies.
There was a mafia guy, and he had a reveal.
He had a jar of poison on the witness stand, and he went, hey!
And then it cut to Batman in the court going, no!
And then it cut to Harvey Dent going, yikes!
And holding a Manila folder across half of his face, hence his transformation into Two-Face.
A folder?
Yeah, I guess it's an older movie than you kids have seen.
That was the Dark Knight Rises, right? Returns or something?
This was the second of these Nolan Batman movies.
No, no, I don't think it was a Nolan movie.
I think that was a...
Doesn't he hold up a folder in that new one, too?
I think it's a folder.
I think everyone holds up a folder when Bane takes over because he goes like, I give you back your city!
Hold your folders high!
And everyone holds up a folder.
I think that's what you're thinking of.
So Dan, you're a new gun owner.
Say what?
You got a weapon now. You got a gun.
I haven't picked it up yet because it seems like it's as hard to usurp democracy as it is to maintain it.
I feel like this whole country is just going to collapse.
Were you getting a gun to overthrow democracy?
I was getting a gun to protect my soup and women in the event of total economic destabilization,
which might result in my neighborhood looking up at my home, which looks like Victor Frankenstein's home,
like in a village of people who only know that I've been robbing their graves to assemble some sort of monster.
I just wanted to have a power tool in my home that can make...
Drills, holes, and faces.
And people that want water, you know, more than they want politeness.
Do you have fantasies about, like, actually, like, you must, because you've bought a gun.
What would happen if somebody came up your steps and demanded your water from your weapon?
No, I would argue that that is fallacious logic.
I bought the gun because I don't have fantasies about what I'd do if shit went that far.
That's why I wanted to buy the gun is from the impulse of feeling like I am not a person that could be relied upon
in a situation of such heightened crisis that, you know, so, no, I don't sit and think,
man, I hope a guy comes up my sidewalk.
Well, I'm not saying you hope that happens, but like...
No, but I also have an entertain...
I just have a vague cloud of chaos in my head where I'm like, well, look what has happened in the first 10 days of this presidency
made me look at the 10-day waiting period that you need to get a gun as a crucial 10 days.
And I now have what makes me feel very comfortable, which is a one-day, a drive to Burbank waiting period.
I have a gun waiting for me in a store run by guys who know how to use guns.
I wanted to, you know, so I'm saying like, I'm feeling better now.
Maybe that's what the waiting period is for.
It's sitting over there.
I can go pick it up any time.
It's probably better there than in my cabinet.
When you were shopping around for, like, on our little Slack...
What is Slack?
Slack, it's a coordinating app for communicating with teens.
No, teams.
Teams.
I was thinking of Snapchat.
You're thinking of 4chan.
Yeah.
There's the Burbank firing line, which I've been to a couple of times.
I'm not a gun guy, but I've shot there a couple of times with friends that have guns.
It's fun to go shoot a gun, but I wouldn't ever want one.
But I just found out that gun, indoor firing ranges, there's loads of fucking suicides.
People go in there and they've had three suicides.
Oh, people actually go there to kill themselves.
No, they go in there to rent a bullet.
They go, oh, here's my credit card. I'll be right back.
And they go, bang!
And they fucking shoot their fucking brains all over the person next to them.
And there's been three suicides with the firing line recently.
And apparently that's not just there. It's everywhere.
Now, what do we think of that person? Is that person a bad person? Is that person a...
Yeah, they suck.
I think that person is a good planner.
I'm glad they don't shoot other people. It'd be so easy.
And then, you know, it's just the people who would be at a gun range, so it's not like zeroes.
Right. Well, that's the first thing.
They're revealing that in the throes of depression enough that life means absolutely nothing to them,
that they don't do something that you could do if you thought life meant nothing,
which is cheat at the Grand Theft Auto game of life and just go bling, blang, bloom, bloom,
like just to see what would happen before you boo-boomed.
So, in a way, gun ranges provide a valuable, like, suicide-booth service.
I just think that's really interesting.
I don't think I could ever go back to a firing range and be relaxed.
I'm not relaxed because you're holding a gun. It's stressful.
The firing line in Burbank on Victory, I think, I went there once.
I'd never fired a gun. They said,
Sir, have you ever fired a weapon before? I said, No, I haven't.
They go, All right, so fill this out. You have to sign some waivers and shit.
And they said, The first thing that you're going to shoot here is the.357 Magnum,
which is a cannon.
And this is to teach you some respect.
And it was fucking bonkers.
That thing is so loud and so scary that I couldn't ever relax.
But now, if I think that the guy next to me might just go,
I want to fucking kill myself.
Well, I think you're going to laugh when I say this,
but there's something very uplifting about that.
Because we're constantly talking to, we're arguing between people,
like, well, in a pre-Trump era, there was a big religious connotation
that had to do with the division between the left and the right,
particularly in the idea of like,
Oh, what are we going to do if there's no God, there's no morality in all this stuff?
And like the, you know, practical minded atheists among us,
the people, it's like, I don't need a bookie man or a fairy tale
or a superstition, not to devalue anything that anyone has a personal relationship with,
but I'm just saying like, people don't need that in order to do the cool thing,
to do the nice thing.
An argument could be made that people are particularly geared to,
as a perfect example of a situation, you're holding a gun,
there's literally a lane of people on either side of you.
You've come here because you have decided that life itself means so little.
You obviously aren't fearing that you're going to wake up in a pool of lava
with like pitchforks going up your butt,
because those people definitely make sure you know that suicide's one of the things
that will make that happen.
So you have made your peace with chaos.
You have made your peace with oblivion.
You have an emotional thing going on in your head with a pain of living is so high
that you just want it to end.
And you don't, as you step out the door, do this horrible, trollish thing.
You know, that is not what most of us want to do.
We are not held in line by getting away with it.
There's no cops in this room.
There's no cops like, there's no cops in this room.
Whee!
If there's one outside, he wouldn't let me walk in that door.
There are paid employees of Harmontown that could fucking kill you
if I snap my fingers.
Do not heckle me.
But there are no cops in this room, man.
But it's like we are not held in line by, you know, we are not animals.
And these Honduran prisoners are, you know,
the guy is cutting vegetables with a guy that killed someone with a machete.
And he's saying, it's weird, I'm cutting cucumbers,
and you cut someone with a machete.
And he's like, huh, what the hell, yeah!
So true!
Chop, chop, chop, chop.
I don't know how that supported my point,
but it was just something that popped in my head.
It's a reason why I want to keep watching this series.
Are you getting a gun, Spencer?
I don't know. Should I get a gun, you guys?
No. I think I heard one yes and one no.
So there it is.
No, you posted a very...
You're very passionately anti-gun.
I know a lot of things.
And here's what I know.
Guns kill people.
I don't want to kill people.
I got to say, Dan, I know you don't like being like a game-stated,
but I don't like the gun thing.
It makes me uncomfortable.
The decision to get a gun is not a thing
that I don't expect to be game-stated on, okay?
So you're right. I don't like to be game-stated.
What the fuck is game-stated?
It's for the apocalypse.
I brought it up as a confessional thing
because I consider that purchase a...
I'm confessing about it.
I'm not telling people that I did the smartest thing in the world
that I recommend everyone do.
I'm sharing with people
that these are crazy times
and that we're all dealing with it in weird ways
and that liberals are becoming anti-Nazis
and anti-Nazis are becoming Nazis
and the people who used to say
maybe freedom of speech is overrated
are now saying, I love the Second Amendment.
It's confusing times and we're scared
and how are we dealing with it and what do we do?
I wanted to...
I'm not a person with solutions
and I'm not a pundit and I'm not an academic.
I dropped out of college
so I'm going to share what I'm going through.
I'm not going to leave a fucking molecule out of it.
I bought a gun.
I bought a gun because that's how close
to the doomsday line it feels,
the clock thing with the doomsday clock.
What do they call it? The doomsday clock.
I bought a gun because of the unknown.
I didn't buy a gun because I thought
anything specific was going to happen.
I bought a gun because for my entire life
of should I buy a gun,
the pachinko ball of logic always ended
with of course not.
And now we are in times where it landed somewhere else
and I think that's notable.
I don't think it's admirable.
I think it's inspirational.
I immediately already, having since talked about it,
I got a tweet from a guy that was like,
what would you recommend?
What did you get the clock thing?
And I was like, whoa, shut it down, shut it down.
I'm not going to have conversations where I proactively influence
your decision about these things.
And God knows where minutes from another sandy hook
at which point it's going to take on another religious connotation
of like holy shit, I'll be ashamed of myself forever
with my third gun again for a little while.
So don't just value my candor, my confession, my honesty.
I don't know what the fuck I'm doing.
I bought this thing because the morning after the election
I went downstairs and after an evening
of my girlfriend staring off into space,
the moment she saw my dog sitter,
they exchanged niceties and then one of them said,
how are you doing?
And they both burst into tears and then everywhere I went
everyone had been crying all morning
and then they had to dry their tears
and they were hollow people.
That had to get back to work.
And I felt emasculated.
I felt helpless.
I felt like there was something I had to be able to do.
I'm not Sirhan, Sirhan.
I don't think the thing I need to do involves the gun.
I feel like I have no recourse to power.
And that is an arrogant, narcissistic, white privilege,
straight, white, male-like reaction.
That is notable.
It's important to measure it.
I bought a fucking gun.
I didn't delete my Uber app until it was important to defeat Uber
because I was fighting another white guy.
I heard 900 stories from women about how fucking horrible Uber was
and then the day that it was a way to give another white guy a black eye
I was like, delete.
I love Lyft now.
Tell me about your podcast.
You fucking weirdo.
Our next guest is...
We should bring out our guest.
What am I doing?
I told him, here's how the show works.
I go up and I talk for 10 minutes and then I'll bring you up.
Okay, you're ready to go.
I just met this guy on another show that I did.
Let's just get to know him at the same time
because I said you should come on my show
and he's a rapper and a creator of Beats.
I don't know if the title would be DJ,
but his name is Open Mike Eagle.
You go ahead.
You can move everything you want.
I can keep talking too.
He brought his own stool on stage.
Yeah, that's a power move, I think.
You're allowed to bring your own furniture on stage.
That's the Chicago way.
Not only is it just like I'm adding furniture to the mix,
but also like you hefted it with such ease
that it's like I'm a powerful man.
Yeah, I don't need a gun, I need it.
It's a small stool though.
No, I'm not saying it's...
I could move that one around too.
It's the appearance of power, that's the way it's a power move.
It doesn't have to be a heavy stool.
He brought it up on stage like he made it.
He carved it out of a single piece of wood.
Let's do a test while Mike Eagle...
Chris, are we ready to do a test where we...
What if I said I wanted to cut to a photo for the...
Oh, shit, he's running.
Okay, I didn't mean to do that.
No, this is the test, this is the test.
I didn't realize, I didn't know...
In the future, you might be able to...
We could just walk probably, walking.
Chris, what if I said I wanted...
Yeah, we did it.
White people, white people and one honorary woman.
So, how do they let a woman sneak into that fucking photo
of creepy, gross, just...
This is a poster of, now you see me too, I think.
Look at their...
I want to talk about a theory I have about this photo,
or rather an obsession I have about this photo.
Now, assumption number one that I'm allowed to make
because of the geometry of this photo.
This is a tripod-mounted photograph.
This is not a quick...
Hey, secretary of labor, labor us a photo with your Samsung,
while people hack it so they can see nuclear launch codes
in your fucking patio.
The lines are lined up here, this is a tripod-mounted shot.
It's been swiveled because any human in their right mind
would center the desk in the frame.
There are an almost equal number of people on both sides
unless you count homophobic pants over here
who I think was either...
I'm trying to figure out if he's doing a power play
and showed up late.
No, he set the timer.
He was the guy that went over to the camera.
Wait, Jeff, no. I'm sorry, but the camera's been swiveled.
Do you understand?
On what the audience is right side of the frame,
what you see is you could measure that line.
You would take half of that line and you would put it over here.
If you wanted to know where the frame would be
if this desk were centered.
It would cut right across Pence's shoulder.
And if Pence wasn't in the shot,
by the way, over here, Herman Munster,
secretary of fucking crazy pumpkin head thumbs,
a living golem from the...
not from Lord of the Rings, from the Hebrew tradition,
an animated man brought here for the purpose of vengeance.
And behind him, who has two thumbs
and looks like Chris Farley's ghost?
That guy's head would be a little over to the right.
He wouldn't be bent like that.
He is scrunching in because the camera moved this way.
The camera moved this way.
I believe that these two aren't getting along for good reason.
I don't think Pence was told this photo was happening.
He ran in last second.
I think he was taking a shit.
He walked by the Oval Office if that's where this is.
It looks ovular to me.
I want to know more about the guy with the orange tie.
No one wears an orange fucking tie.
It's very clear that you wear red or blue ties.
This guy's got a Halloween tie back there.
Also, she only gets one thumb.
All the guys got two thumbs.
It's a shame that women only have one thumb for every two thumbs a man makes.
Women actually only get 70% of thumbs.
Women only get eight oceans to every 11 oceans a man makes.
Remember when the national conversation would have been about zero black people in the photo?
It would have been just a talking point.
It's not that we don't notice it.
It's that we know they're white nationalists and we have bigger fish to fry now.
We're like, yeah, well, they're racist.
They haven't made any bones about that.
So we're moving on because we're like, how do we get them out of there?
We're no longer policing them and going like, it would be nice to see some diversity in that photo.
We're like, hey, is there anything in this photo that can show us their weakness?
Also, has there ever been a kryptonite barrel in the corner?
Has there ever been a desk that big that didn't have a fucking book or a pen on it?
It's a desk.
He doesn't have any shit on it.
He clearly doesn't want desks.
He doesn't want to be at that desk.
That's not a good desk.
That's not a desk of someone who uses a desk.
It's a good desk for finding the book of secrets.
But remember, remember Obama's first couple days in office?
Hey, Mike, keep it down, would you?
I was. Thanks.
I remember when one of the first things, because they have to, it was like, Obama with the Hitler mustaches.
Oh, it's the end of the world, Obama's president.
Oh, God, how can we, how will we live through two years of this, four years of this, eight years of this?
It's a black man in the White House.
We're all going to die.
And the first thing was, look at him.
He's not even wearing his jacket at the desk, because the first photo was him with his shirt sleeves rolled up,
and he was on the phone, fucking papers everywhere, getting to work.
And then somebody split-screened it with Kennedy, and it was, it was like, yeah, I'm a civil servant.
I fucked Marilyn Monroe, but I also, I want work to get done.
All right, anyways, whatever.
When did I become political?
The answer is when we started dying.
There was a great Twitter moment where somebody posted this picture and said,
what's this mixtape called?
And then everybody was sending in answers.
It was great.
Mine was Male White Marauders.
This is the name of this picture.
It's a hip-hop joke, I'm sorry.
Yeah, well, let's talk about the fact that, about hip-hop jokes that we won't get.
I'm so full of those, yeah.
We just met, like, I didn't have time, I'm not going to pretend I'm like, oh, I'm a huge fan of open mic eagle,
but I liked what you were doing in the show that I met you in, and then I was like, after the show,
like, you should come and do my show, but I know nothing about you.
I know you're from Chicago, I know that you're, like, what was your upbringing like?
Oh shit, it was fucked up.
I lived like, like, right by the projects, like not in them, but kind of like, right by them, and shit.
And I went to elementary school that was, like, nestled within the projects, so I had,
I lived with my grandparents, my mom was fucked up, and yeah, I had to try to have, like, a normal childhood,
except they kept me very sheltered, and there's, like, gunshots and crack cocaine and all that,
and you had uncles and aunts, they're all strung out on shit, but they kept me in the house,
so, like, I just watched a shit ton of, like, fucking cable television in the late 80s and early 90s a lot.
Raised by your grandparents?
Yeah.
And so what was their take on the world around?
Stay inside.
That was it.
Stay, don't, don't go outside.
Did they have, as a white, naive question, did they have a take that was racially based?
Like, did they have talks with you about what to do when the cops and blah, blah, blah, what other black people do?
My grandparents were black people.
What?
From the south.
Let me finish, okay?
And what that meant is all of their talks were alarmingly racist, like, but not in, like, a, like, not in a cute way.
Like, I had a Japanese seventh grade teacher, and the shit that my sweet old grandmother used to say about that, man,
it was fucking awful.
You know, like, she was a great person, but, you know, she was-
I think we'd all like to hear.
I wouldn't, I wouldn't dare.
So we could cluck our tongues and also go, yeah, whoa, whoa.
It's just an example.
It would be great.
So we know how to judge her.
Yeah, she called, she called her a bunch of shit that obviously was learned in World War II.
Oh, so she would say, like, actual slurs.
Yes.
She wouldn't just use stereotypes like, how did she drive to teach you?
No, it was, it was, because she, you know, she, I don't know, it was just part of lexicon for her to say those awful, awful things.
No, but how, and how did she feel about, because she's from a certain generation, like, what was her and your grandpa's, like, their,
it's like, if they're looking at a Korean person, they might have all kinds of, like, comforting things to say about the other,
but what was their feeling about how they fit into their government, their society, their neighborhood, whatever?
You know, it was more like, keep your nose to the ground and work.
They didn't have a lot of, we didn't have a lot of talk about identity.
Like, my dad talked to me about a lot of that stuff.
My grandparents, they were, they were working people and they worked and they wanted to make sure we were safe and did our homework and shit.
They could care less about a lot of, you know, a lot of social and racial identity and that kind of thing.
So they were just sort of like, were they Christian?
Yeah.
They were kind of like, just be a good person and go to church and like, be, like, work hard and stay out of trouble.
Yeah, do your homework, don't hit girls at school, like, you know what I mean?
Like, just real straight down the middle shit, you know?
And did you mainly adhere to that or were you a rebel in your youth?
Nah, I wore, I wore corduroy's and the sweaters that they brought me from K-Marvel, my grandmother worked.
So my rebelling would be not wearing my shirt all the way up to the top.
That was my, that was my rebelling.
And what were you interested in when you were like, sixth grade, seventh grade, eighth grade, like, going through puberty, like, what did you imagine?
Were you scarred by the Japanese teacher you had, did that fuck you up?
No, I loved him, he was fantastic.
He was an amazing person.
Mr. Matsumoto was fucking awesome.
Matsumoto, it's like, like, easy to remember too.
Yeah, yeah, he was scarred.
He made an impression on me.
You could just start making up that name and find your way through it and still be right.
Okay, alright.
Fuck, I mean, maybe I'm in your grandma's side.
Maybe I like to dehumanize.
Maybe that and Christ are blankets I wrap around me at night and maybe the world has no other options for me.
No, but what, when you were like, like, pick your age, 10, 11, 12, whatever, but like, at a certain, there's a point where, where your future is like, all, you know, like, like, what was the astronaut dream?
Or the, like, I remember me and my best friend said, we were going to get a boat and we were going to sail into the Bermuda Triangle and we were going to like, just like, find out what the deal was with the Bermuda Triangle.
And we were pinky swearing, we're like, seriously though, you know how old people get fat and old and then they don't want to do that.
And then we were like, no, for real, I fucking know, we're going to look you up and we're like, we set a date and I, you know, of course I fucked him over.
I mean, my personal dream like that was that I had romanticized being like, in like, the Secret Service or some shit, but only because in my dumb mind, the Secret Service guys were like, somebody in the government knows everything.
And it's got to be those guys.
They're the Secret Service.
Yeah.
So they got to know all the secrets.
They're not the Ignorant Service.
Exactly.
They have a secret in their name.
So I wanted to do that.
It turns out they're just in charge of counterfeiting and protecting the president, I guess.
I don't know.
Yeah, that is an interesting answer.
Like, I'm fascinated by the Secret Service too.
Like, I wonder like, what their definition of a good guy and a bad guy is?
Like, what you're supposed to do?
Like, what if the president grabs a hammer and goes at himself with the claw end of it?
What's your responsibility as a Secret Service guy?
You have to like, jump between him and the hammer.
Like, you have to get in between the hammer and him.
Yeah.
The whole time he's saying, this is for the American people that I'm doing this.
There's a microchip in my head.
Like, are you supposed to as a Secret Service guy be like, that's impossible?
You have to, right?
Or are you supposed to be like, this is my boss?
Because presidents have like, fevers and shit too sometimes.
Only they wake up in cold sweats saying crazy shit all the time.
And especially they don't have to jump in front of that virus.
He has to get right in front of that sneeze that gave him that cold.
The big question is like, when they, I remember when Obama got elected, there was a kind of
doubling up of Secret Service efforts and things, which was simultaneously like, it's
kind of like, by the millennial definitions, it's like, oh, we're racist.
We're noticing he's a black president, so let's close ranks everybody.
It's like, if you drifted further into the outfield when he came up to bats.
I have a friend from high school, my friend Mike Carpio, who listens to the show.
He drives a cab in New York right now.
He sent a postcard jokingly saying to a friend that was going to Chicago when I think George
Herbert Walker Bush was president, saying like, hey, you're going to meet Chicago.
Don't shoot the president while you're there, haha.
And a postcard.
The next morning, knock on the door, two dudes in suits, Secret Service, and they gave him
100 questions.
Where are you homosexual, are you a member of the Communist Party?
And they had the postcard.
So they haven't changed their questionnaire from 1955?
No, same question.
Just boilerplate.
Hey, should we cut down on some of these questions?
Hey, what harm is there in knowing if someone's gay?
Right.
That was someone at the meeting, they were like, hey, what do we want to know less?
We'll wait for them to sue us, then we'll stop asking.
The news doesn't loosen.
Yeah, we drove all the way to Whittier.
We're not going to not know if they're gay or not.
But I am fascinated with that.
The idea of what I was getting to is like, okay, the Secret Service, how much does it
get flushed and switched over for each president?
Like, they have to have a professional code that supersedes.
Didn't a guy just resign?
Like the head of the Secret Service just resigned, I think?
Is that something I'm making up?
Can't keep track.
National security, right?
No, but a different guy.
I think specifically, I think the director of the Secret Service resigned for personal
reasons.
Yeah.
I feel like what I'm doing is literally called upstaging you.
Oh, Mike, by the way, I just got to check, if you need to hook into all your gear there,
I have the DI.
That's right, I got to do the other thing.
The DI box here.
Do you need to hook into this?
I do.
Because that's your lead.
How's everybody doing?
That's good.
Reading a good comic books.
Cool.
Upstage is backstage.
Now, when you get back on the, Mike, Mike, I want to talk about all this gear you have
here.
You got loads of shit.
I do.
That's why you brought a stool.
This stool is not just a power move, this is an actual functional tool.
Yes, it's a thing used for sitting.
The reason why upstaging is a bad thing is because you stay back and you make the other
person go like this, you're fucking them over if you hug the back wall.
I learned that in a trauma club.
Upstaging.
All right, so, yeah, but I don't know, I was just, okay, we don't have, that was a graceful
segue and I want to ruin it because I still want to talk about the Secret Service.
I just imagine you being a Secret Service person and I'm like, okay, so then the guy
comes into the office that's like, what if your, I mean, what if your wife is Muslim?
What if you, like, it's like, what do they do, what a Secret Service guy, we'll have
a Secret Service guy as a guest and we'll ask him all kinds of questions.
For her, you're welcome.
Okay, let's get into the wrapping portion of our show, which should last for now until
90 minutes from now.
So how do we want to do this?
I got a bunch of shit that can be done.
It's just, what do we want to do?
Let's just have an open source process.
Start by giving me a beat.
How did you guys meet while Mike's putting this together?
You guys do what show?
It's funny, we were both, I was a rogue cop and then I had to say hello to my new partner.
Now we just did this show.
Are you making beats on the flat?
No, I'm just going to, I got something to say to that, but thank you for it.
Now are you going to lay down some stuff that you already have written or are you going
to have a freestyle for us?
I don't know.
Well, I don't have anything written to this.
You don't have anything written to this?
Not just.
I do.
Well, when you rap, you rap with your heart, you do your best to do your rapping part because
rap music is never going anywhere.
It's in all of the water, the fire, the wind and your hair, mislead.
Well, I'm a rapping man and I'm here to sing.
I want to rap about everything, but I can't, not yet till I get a harmony in my heart.
I want to do my part, so I bought a gun for some reason.
The president's committing treason just by sitting in that office.
I hear him cough, and I think, is he going to die?
And then I wonder why I'd be happy for somebody to be in pain.
I'm on the hate train.
My name is motherfucking MC.
I'm going to put every vitamin inside of my pee.
I'm going to drink it down and pee it out because that's what a recycling syndrome's
about.
If you're only drinking pee, then water is pee, and if you pee it out, it's twice as
much pee you see.
So you got to seek effervescent freshness, you got to get back to what the quest was.
You can pee in Texas and you can pee on extras, and if you can't pee long, you should stretch
it out like I do, because I got a really small bladder, so I pee longer than I have to in
the bathroom.
I let people think I'm still going when I'm blowing, even though nothing is showing.
Fuck it.
Oh, shit.
Well, now what do we do?
That's the danger of rapping when you're also in control of how long the beats go.
Yeah.
It's also the danger of rapping that early in the show.
I mean, how are we going to follow that with our bullshithes?
Dan, you just dropped $4.
I guess with cash prizes.
Hello.
That's like in video games when you beat someone up and they drop money.
I want to hear more, just more like, you know, rapping.
More rapper.
More extemporaneous freestyle.
That was a nice beat.
I had a good one.
That was good.
All right.
So these are all beats that you made up yourself?
That one was, a lot of this is other people's shit from our songs, and what should I put
on here?
What should we call that last rap?
Well, doing the rapping part.
Oh, yeah.
That hook was great.
That was great.
What?
Is there any significance to the name open mic eagle?
Yeah.
He sounds a little bummed out about that.
I pressed the opposite of a button.
Yeah.
I found the armchair snooze setting like a bored you to death.
No, it's not boredom.
It's just that I should have a way better answer.
And the truth is my government name is Michael Eagle.
Oh, okay.
That's it.
It was fucking Mike Eagle and a rapper bunch at open mics.
And so then I just smashed all that shit together and made a rap name.
You didn't feel like Mike Eagle wasn't cool enough?
You know what?
That's the best name in the world.
In retrospect, you're correct.
It would be the thing to do now, like if you started now, it's to the 2003 or whatever
you started.
Dan, I think about it every day.
Yeah.
But you could also.
If you call yourself Mike Eagle, people will think you made that up.
When you say my name is open mic eagle, they go, oh, his name is Mike Eagle and he's ashamed
of it.
Yeah.
He doesn't believe that that's enough.
I didn't.
I was overcompensating.
It got stuck in it forever.
But you could be like John Cougar, Mellon Camp and just drop the cougar at some point.
Did he drop it?
I don't know what the arc was with that shit at all.
Because he was Johnny Cougar for a while and it was John Cougar, Mellon Camp, and I think
he just went to John Mellon Camp.
That was a great decision.
Yeah.
I'm going to draw upon his strength because the cougar was thrust upon him, but Eagle,
you were born with the Eagle.
I was.
Yeah.
You saved your destiny.
I mean, I like it.
I just didn't realize it was enough.
Mike Eagle.
I can't feel like you should you know what it is.
It's my dad's name, too.
Right.
So I never thought it was fucking special.
You know Mike Eagle Junior the second or whatever the fuck.
That's fucked up.
My eagle.
You have to either be like a like film noir detective or a stripper because Mike Eagle
is good.
That's a great name.
I feel like I'm being too I read the Mike.
Mike Eagle novels.
What?
No, I was saying, like, you could write a series of detective novels, my angle.
Like Sam Spade and fucking...
...Dashel Hammett.
I think, I think if he were to be a detective...
I think it would go something like this.
Put a beat on...
Shit.
...before you get beat on.
Whoa!
Beats and P, goddammit.
It's the name of this...
segment.
I like this one a lot.
This takes your height, Dan.
Oh my god, oh my god, oh my god.
Just giving it like a pit set.
I don't know.
This is a sample from They Might Be Giants, by the way.
Oh, yeah.
The last one was, too.
Hear me call.
Yeah.
Dan doesn't like this one.
No, I think he does.
No, I'm liking it too much.
I'm sorry, I was just listening.
I don't know.
Here.
You put it in your sleep like a shark upside down.
Yup, yup.
You ever see...
You're like, it's a...
How about a gibberish?
I'm talking gibberish when I...
I rap this bass, I gotta talk gibberish.
Because I can't rap this fast and speak English.
Because I'm rapping too fast, doesn't speak real words.
I fucked her mama like I was watching birds.
Took my binoculars and saw both cities.
I fucked her mama coast to coast in both cities.
Went to New York, Manhattan, Staten Island.
Fucked her mama so hard, she turned into a guy named Ryland.
Psst, psst, psst.
It's like a nephew of my girlfriend.
It's a real name.
Is her name Ryland?
Or Ryland?
Is it Ryland with a D or Ryland?
It confuses people.
Choose better names for your children.
If it's Stephanie, spell it S-G-E-P-H-A-N-I-E.
That's how we know how to spell it.
If you fuck with that, you're gonna doom your kid
to a life of correcting people.
But if you name your kid WubaJub,
spell it out, WubaJub.
How you want to spell it, WubaJub.
You're an inventor.
You're Thomas Edison.
Fucked your mama so hard, let us in to the kitchen
like a vampire.
I fucked your mama till I changed your pussy's tire.
I checked it up.
I put it down.
I changed the lug nuts and drove her ass around.
I treated her with respect.
Then the car wrecked.
Took it back to Amos.
Said, I don't know what happened.
Take it, Mike.
Yeah.
I know what happened.
There's a lot to unpack.
Yes.
There's condoms in the back seats.
Why?
I don't know.
I had acne.
He fucked my mother like some type of athlete.
Or my mom?
Why did I personalize it?
I don't know.
I don't have to.
It could be your mom or your mom.
It could be somebody's mom in Vietnam.
Anywhere.
There's nothing stopping this man from fucking anybody's mother.
And this is the truth I have finally discovered right now.
But he fucked all of our mothers.
So that means all of us are sisters and brothers.
He is a man of many lovers.
As he has said, as he repeated.
And as he said, he excreted all over nasty back seats.
And then he returned the car like nothing happened.
And it was full of used prophylactics.
I'm like, dude, that's disgusting.
Look at the semen you've erupted.
It's like all over the upholstery.
What is this supposed to be?
And he still had to pay full price plus the cleaning fee.
Because the people were like, we're not cleaning semen or cleaning pee.
Because it's all about his liquids.
Because I'm ubiquitous.
Yes.
With my liquidus.
This administrativeness.
From the oval oftenness of this coughiness.
I want to put it in a sarcophagus.
I got the pillars.
I got the house.
I want to creep in there like a tiny mouse.
I got superpowers going to shrink my ass down.
Going to go to the oval office and go to ground round.
It's a restaurant chain in the Midwest.
And in the Midwest we kick fresh.
Now I'm fucking with incest, they're small like insects.
Hide them like witsack, witness.
Protection, that's how we do it.
Strangled in here or any section.
Been like the midsection.
Maybe torso, fingers getting their head like horn rolls for twisting.
Just watch how we blow like ballistic missiles.
Cause the shit's wild, not an exile.
Put flows together like textiles.
Smile for miles, never stopping.
I'm tech copper with the news and prime time, a light shine.
They don't want to stand for the tenth time.
Break it down like enzymes when I get within rhymes.
There's no space to be left between.
Come back, have them dancing like bimberine and they system.
Got them hook addicted, nicotine, they a small victory.
I'm coming through pretty big pigs.
Want to get shut down when I clown.
And they don't understand this is that new smackdown.
Referee doing fast counts, one, two, three.
They can't move me, MCs, they think I'm in the food cheese.
But I'm watching, show them double features in the movie.
But it's all this, it's all that we are fat.
The hitter with the ball bat, it's fall star.
They wall march, they generic, we just declare it.
We stare at them, they get embarrassed when we share this freestyle.
How the fuck do you do that, baby?
I don't know how I do that.
How the fuck, how the fuck, how the fuck do you do that?
Do you eat something special when you grow enough?
Is there a tree in your backyard that grows a special fruit?
Did you win an eBay auction that gave you a special lamp that you rubbed?
Like a wrapping genie.
Oh, what a meanie.
I'm Kevin Meaney, who passed away.
He did pass away.
I rap on a Saturday or Sunday.
I move the crowd like funk sway.
When people rig a major furniture.
Yeah, I rap, but it's earlier.
I will miss you earlier.
That means I'll look through your window.
I'll make you sick and large your fucking lymph nodes.
Like I was cancerous.
MCs want to get pressed up like beats on a master disk.
Next to their name, like Barry Bonds for the asterisks.
After he hits the home run, I am the show gun.
There's no one I kill on my Africans with a blow gun.
When they're trying to do what they do, cause they're predators.
Open cuts your words up like a newspaper editor with op-ed.
I'm not drop dead Fred that old school movie from the 80s.
MCs will try to slay me, but they can't do nothing cause they feel smart as a baby.
But yeah, they got babies and they think they sick.
They want to come through with new shit, but they just miss how we do it.
Hello.
Yeah.
Jesus Christ.
Second you are, cause you ran upholstery with supposed to be.
That made me very happy.
Incredible.
Fuck it.
Oh, Vincent Price breakdown.
Right.
Like me doing the Vincent Price bridge.
Yes.
You're upholstery is scintillating creepy.
The seat coverings are smotherings from the spider's delight.
Oh shit. Ice-tease here too.
Yo, they ain't personal.
It's just business.
Want to fuck your mother?
What is this?
I want to see your pussy to her mouth.
I fucked your mother from the north to the south.
It ain't personal.
It's just me.
I put a bullet in my pee.
I peed out the bullet like a gun.
You telling me this motherfucker's done?
Uh-uh.
Ice-tea to the I to the C to the E and every T and it rhymes.
Everything rhymes with T.
That's all me.
Ice-tea.
Yeah.
Yo, I gotta go.
I'm gonna get an ice cream.
Don't confuse that with what my name means.
My name comes from the streets.
Yo, my sore feet.
They get sore when I walk.
I fucked your mama.
Oh shit.
Jimmy Stewart's here too.
I saw your mama was outside.
Well, obviously I need a B.
Oh yeah.
That was kind of a smooth one.
We can take a break and talk about you again.
Okay.
Now that there's heightened interest in you.
Is there?
Is that what happened?
I saw some skills and things.
So now we're at the point in your life you're being raised by your grandparents.
Oh shit.
Okay.
I forgot that we were talking about the past.
There's a point, so where are you?
You're not like a six year old on the playground that's into hip hop, are you?
No, I was into, I mean this is the thing.
Where I grew up and when I grew up rap was just there.
Rap was there.
My older sister, my first rap I heard, I got in my mom's car.
She was playing fucking Easy Ease first album.
It was fucking 1987.
Oh yeah.
You know what I mean?
The suspense was making me sick.
So I opened it up and the bitch had a dick.
My mom's car when I was six.
And I was like, oh my god, all these curse words, this is fucking great.
But that was just what was all around me.
So I never, I mean at least at that point in my life I wasn't like, oh god, rap is awesome
because it was just life.
And so I actually escaped into rock music and shit that I was seeing on MTV.
Did you associate rap at that age?
You were kind of like, this is, like almost maybe what I associated Country Western with
is like, this is my parents' music, this is grown up shit.
This is like, so did you reject it?
It wasn't so much that I rejected it.
It was just like the soundtrack of my surroundings.
What was the first record or a rap group that you got into?
Was that your own discovery or your own shit?
Trapcore Quest.
Oh yeah.
So all of that shit.
Like all of the Day Last Soul, Trapcore Quest, the brand newbie.
I was really bummed out when Fife died.
Yeah man.
I didn't realize until I read an article at Day Last Soul because I was always like,
why wasn't Day Last Soul's fire?
Why didn't it burn everything down?
And it was like, there was sampling legislation that happened
that I had no idea had anything to do with it.
Yeah.
That a lot of their sound was like very, very...
And they were part of the original lawsuits that changed Hip Hop forever.
Yeah.
Like they were sampling like the turtles and just interludes and shit.
But there were no standing laws or no history for how you go about punishing that.
And so the copyright law for Hip Hop started with them and started with Bismarck E.
And then it became like illegal to the point where these,
the record labels and the guys who owned those masters could sue for the amount of money
that would just kill a whole project.
It could kill a whole label.
It could put everybody in a bankruptcy and it changed Hip Hop forever.
That's why Hip Hop can't sound like it used to.
Like the records that I grew up loving are all illegal right now.
You can't make any of those.
Do you think that when we go to music in general,
even if maybe our grandparents went to Elvis for the same reason,
or Little Richard or whatever, like,
are we going to music when we're in the mood to fuck or fight
and that's why conscientious music, like a message in your music,
like it's gonna never like win that stock market battle where it's like,
hey, over here I got, I'm selling Arrested Development.
Like in the 90s I was like, it seems so much harder
and so much more worthwhile to try to rise above the equally charismatic stuff
like that easy, easy thing you're talking about.
I remember the white guys in the locker room,
just like everyone knew it by syllable.
Like everyone had it memorized and it had infected everybody,
I guess because it was just for the same reason that,
who knows, like what, I'm doing the twist or whatever the fuck,
like it's always been, it's the same as rock and roll.
It's like, oh, they're talking about fucking them,
they're talking about anger, they're talking about something my parents don't like
and this is finally authentic and it's been too inauthentic and now it's authentic,
but the problem is that that authenticity never goes hand in hand with like,
is this a question, Dan, is what you're wondering?
No, no, no, I think it makes perfect sense.
The authenticity doesn't go hand in hand with like, oh, here's an idea.
Authenticity tends to go hand in hand with, I want to smash someone in the face,
I shot someone today, I'm horny.
I mean, you know, what it is with hip hop and I don't know if this speaks to other genres.
I think it is with rock and roll too, but it sticks out more with hip hop.
I know that when I grew up, when hip hop was starting,
there were hella options in terms of the type of content you could get in a popular rap song even.
Not upstaging of getting drunk.
It's all good. You could have NWA and you could have public enemy
and all of that was able to exist in the same space.
What I think happened with rap music is that ultimately,
the rap music that aligns more with like our overarching cultural values,
it becomes easier for that to spread than things that are talking about going against that.
Do you think part of it is because if guys are rapping about being poor
and how they'll always be poor and how being poor makes them angry
and how the kind of lower class lifestyle being maybe not necessarily applauded
by the protagonist in the music, but certainly being coped with, being celebrated,
do you think that maybe part of it is because that's easy to digest for everybody,
including people who can stay racist and like good music?
Right, but what I'm saying specifically about rap music,
because if you look at Dr. Dre's The Chronic album,
and that album changed like everything because it was one of the first times
that a high profile rap release was overtly about like fucking and money
and like you said, shit that people could identify with,
no matter if they liked or identified with the people making it or not,
they could identify with those values, like those are cultural values overall.
And I feel like once people are able to dial into that,
then that shows the mode of hip-hop that was able to become more dominant.
There's two different areas here,
because it's like the thing that I always hear over and over,
but that historical era of hip-hop was like, oh, the white people flooded in,
like the suburban white kids that don't, it's not identifiable, but it's still charismatic.
The music was good because I was a suburban, I still am a suburban white kid,
like EPMD, Eric B and Rock Him, NWA, Too Short, like all the West Coast stuff,
we all listened to it because the music was good, like the quality was really good,
the production values were really good, and their records were actual albums,
like the whole record said something, it wasn't just a bunch of bullshit,
and Rock and Roll wasn't doing it then, like Rock and Roll had kind of gone away.
So we rejoined Open Mike Eagle's biopic, you're hearing Tribe Called Quest the first time,
and we're still, as far as I know, because I want to hear the point where you actually are seduced by hip-hop.
Okay, that's high school for me, because I first identified with Tribe Called Quest beneath the apple bum,
and I'm seeing images of people, of black people who are cool, but they're not like,
I'm trying to be hard cool, they're like, it's okay for me to be unique,
it's okay for me to rock these weird, afrocentric, baggy, and I wasn't able to do that either,
but I saw self-confident people who weren't trying to portray the hardest image,
and to me that created a space like, oh wait a minute, there's room for me in this culture too,
because I wasn't reflecting those other values either.
So that was the first thing, and in Chicago, on the south side in high school,
there was this place called Promontory Point, it was this park district where they had this city-sanctioned breakdancing class.
But what the hip-hop community in this city used as this meeting point for people who were into all of the hip-hop arts,
people who were doing graffiti, people who were freestyle rapping, people who were breakdancing,
people who were DJing, they all got together at this place every Tuesday and Thursday afternoon,
and that just flicked something in my head, like oh wait a minute, this is not just some shit to listen to,
it's some shit you can actually do, and taking that layer of distance away from it,
and making it something that I had an entry or access point into.
So maybe intellectualizing it, maybe, but not that that sounds punitive to you, but that's how I experience emotion.
I need to logically realize that it's the right thing to do, that it makes sense to do it,
that it's strategically, that it doesn't compromise me, that it doesn't take anything away from me,
that it's a proper way for me to...
I was like, oh, hugging my girlfriend is a way to maintain that, I'm just wondering maybe if you're a verbal thinker,
if you're a logical thinker, you grow up in that atmosphere and you're like, then in that moment you're like, wait a minute,
and if I could speculate going like, because something that I had to, like back then I remember going like,
somebody had to tell me or I read it somewhere, they were like, oh, don't you understand that going like this with a record in the 80s,
is like the only recourse we've provided kids that used to get tuba lessons,
and that all of the sampling and everything, beatboxing, rapping itself, everything, all of it is,
it's an expression of, it's like banging on pipes underneath the fucking subterranean,
not underneath the subterranean thing, don't let me do this.
And then I was like, oh shit, I had to have a logical, I kind of have to parse it in sci-fi terms myself,
I'm always like, oh wait, okay, this is the robots and these are the people and this is how we fight and this is what we do,
and maybe that happened to you kind of in that moment where you're like, wait a minute, what do all these things have in common,
they're unsanctioned, they're not...
What was the threshold for you, Mike, when you listened to stuff, you got turned on by that music and then you started saying,
okay, now I have to go get equipment and start making it myself, like how old were you?
I started rapping just as 16, right, and I was seeing people rap at that place, freestyle, they were getting in circles and freestyle rhyming,
and so like me and my friends in high school decided we were going to do that,
and so from like the age of 16 to like 24, all the rap I ever did was freestyle.
So that's why you're better, I started at 42.
Well then yeah, 10,000 hours, you know what I mean?
That's not true, Dan, you've been doing it since you were 20 and you've been bad at it the whole time.
I started taking it seriously last week, okay?
Wait, Mike, can you give Dan some pointers because tell him to stop saying the word mouth because he knows he's just going to have to say south after that.
But there's a certain pitfalls that you fall into every time.
Do you rap a lot for real?
In the show, yeah I do.
And truly in the show, because it started as a gimmick in the show, the idea was I rap badly only by virtue of doing the show every week for years,
I'm getting a little bit better, don't tell anyone I said that.
No, you're not terrible.
It's just practicing, it's like light training.
And that's all it is.
You have your moments, Dan.
Once in a while, Dan will lay down a really good rhyme.
Well, that's the thing that fascinates me about rap because unlike piano lessons, which I regret ever bailing on and stuff,
but here's this thing where there's people who labor, the relationship between freestyle and writing raps is just really fascinating to me.
It deep core fracks the fascination.
I'm not drunk, I'm just making up new words like Shakespeare.
Also it's 9-11.
Don't let that alarm you.
It was a little scary.
Were they uninitiated?
Let me remind you that it's a little scary.
Just so you know, our fans are crazy people.
They're crazy.
Well, here's the thing you did just before you launched into what we were doing it before.
I was babbling and I was doing bits and then it was literally, I watched you,
like I said like sassafras and then you were like, I'm going to start rapping.
I saw that on your face.
And then I, because I was just like, and by sassafras I mean pineapple and you're like pineapple, apple, babble.
But like you could have gotten away with, in your head you had the option of going with sassafras as a point of departure,
but you were committed to a last dragon like flow.
Absolutely, absolutely.
I mean, that's all it is.
You know, it's just making connections, you know, but in real time that's all it is.
And the enemy is starting to think?
No, the enemy is stopping.
That's the only enemy is stopping.
You just keep going.
Just like when me and my friends first started,
But I didn't hear you.
We were all fucking horrible.
And what we used to do, we would get on the phone and call each other old school three way, right?
With no beat.
And we would just start rapping.
We were fucking awful.
And our whole thing was just don't fucking stop.
And then like, what you started to do after a while is built that catalog of words.
So then it's not mouth and south, it's about and trout and grout and gout and all of that.
The rhymes don't have to be actual complete rhymes.
There could be sounds.
You're just riffing on sounds.
You don't even have to rhyme.
You just got to keep going.
Some of the best lyrics in music history, there are no rhymes.
There's a song called Moonlight in Vermont, which is a beautiful lyric and there's no rhyme in it.
And you don't notice that.
It's just a great, it's a beautiful lyric.
It's a poem.
Somebody requested.
I can't sing it, we're getting sued.
I was in, I did this study with the National Institutes of Health.
I freestyle in an MRI machine.
What?
Yeah, I did.
And like, and they, and I'm a co-author on a fucking National Institute of Health study about it.
Wait, that's right.
Improvisation or freestyling.
You got an MRI while you were freestyling?
Yeah, no, like, they bloated me in the machine.
Can I make a guess?
I'll probably be wrong.
But I would guess because words appear as, for me, they're visual.
Does the same part of like facial recognition, like spatial recognition come up?
Like what part of your brain lit up in the MRI?
Well, they said, okay, so they've been studying this.
Because they started with studying like improvisational pianists in there.
So they had this little keyboard you can put in there.
So like, they're trying to figure out the brain parts that are active when people reach what's called the flow state.
And that's any improvisation.
This is not about lead with this.
No, I mean, that's not, go, go, keep going, keep going.
But it's, and so what they say is like language turns on, but like forethought, like the normal frontal lobe thought turns off.
And you start thinking with like more reptilian brain, because you don't, you like, because you can't overthink it, like you said.
But you're still using language.
It's like your reptile brain is shooting lightning through the forebrain, but the forebrain's being used as a fucking silencer and a pistol or any other tool.
It's like, it's like, it's turned like, man, unfortunately, the results were filled with jargon that I didn't understand at all.
On your part, you mean in your raps, but you're like, I'm in an MRI and I got a dick in my eye.
How did you not rap about being in the MRI machine?
It leads for the first 10 minutes.
It's hard to rhyme.
I'm gonna do a little oblongata, you know.
I feel my optic nerve heating up.
I feel my frontal lobe cooling down.
All right.
And you're like, I'm trying too hard.
Pull me out, pull me out.
All right, no, but what part of the brain is active when you're in the flow state?
Like, that's the thing.
It's a combination of lobes.
And I'll have to like, I'd have to like send you the shit because like the front part turns off in a couple of this like parietal temporal turn.
Like it's, it's, it was a complicated thing that they were showing happens.
They put like chess players, like chess masters under CAT scans or MRIs and the, they showed them images of chess boards.
Like of a game, like in like middle game or end game or early game, like, like openings or something like that.
And the same part of their brain lit up that is the same part of your brain that lights up when you see a face that you recognize.
And you go, oh, that's Dan Harmon.
Oh, that's Mike.
Oh, that's Spencer.
They see chess boards as people.
So we should all be spending a lot more time in MRI machines.
Like, like, like this technology is important.
Like we should all just be spending like six hours a day in MRI machines and pooling the results.
They get a lot of money to put shit in MRI machines and see what happens.
Like Dan, you were saying that you got better, like you've been getting better at being in the flow state wrapping over time because you can actually rewire those synapses to create new flow.
Well, that's what I think is interesting.
Like, well, because remember this, the Ken Keezy metaphor that you told me about?
Like, you ever read Electric Kool-Aid Asset Test?
Ken Keezy, he had this metaphor that for being in the moment, which was like, which is the same thing you're talking about this flow state.
His metaphor was that you walk up to a player piano with the role going and that you, of course, if you didn't know how to play piano, you'd be like,
you could try to play this weird game where you tried to like imitate the keys.
And this is also in Westworld's title sequence.
But that you, that Ken Keezy had this like concept of if you take enough acid or if you get enough in the moment.
Your fingers fall into those.
Your fingers will start to get so fast because what's stopping you is thinking about observing the keys and blah, blah, blah.
And then, but then the further philosophical concept was that you could get into that state so much that you could finish the song
and then look up and see that the player role didn't have the end of the song on it, that you had known the song itself.
So it's the same thing.
And Olympic athletes say essentially the same thing.
Like, because people want to know for very good reasons how the fuck did you jump that high?
I mean, but isn't it similar with writing, too, though, because like I'm like,
I'd like to think so.
Right. Most people can't, most people can't like consciously remember like the mind state they were in when they wrote their best shit or had their best ideas.
Like kind of you just, you're in the moment so much that you kind of separate from it.
Even when I have an amazing show like this one, I'm in a total blackout.
I don't know what's going on.
I'll find out later that we won a podcastie.
No, but yeah, and that's what's interesting to note is that it practicing shit so often has to do with actually you have to learn some shit,
but then it's like you got to unlearn thinking about it.
They say that like learning a craft like learning piano.
If there's genius inside you, the craft will liberate the genius.
So working on something like working on rhyming, working on music, working on writing,
the hard work that it takes will liberate the genius inside you that was always there.
Can we try an exercise?
Let's just go back and forth like dueling banjo style.
Okay.
You can just like you're teaching me to drive.
You just do a little bit like what's the definite?
What's a good like short attention span?
You do like a couple of do a little bit and then I'll do a little bit and then you do a little bit.
Are we going to beat or are we going acapella?
Oh, should we go acapella?
I mean, we can just, you know.
I put a real simple beat on.
I got one of them, but yours are going to be better, I'm sure.
You got what you got?
Well, as Harry Foster, he gave us some beats.
You want to try one of his?
Yeah, then we'd have to switch the deal.
You do yours because you get, you have your finger on the knob a little better than over there.
Red leather, yellow leather, hip hop to the hippity hop.
Dan, can I give you some improv advice?
Overthink it.
That's so good.
Have you just came up with that right now?
Look, look, look, Mike, he's already, he's already freaking out.
Tell us this.
No, I'm loosening it, look at me, I'm like the air.
I am the sun, I'm the air.
Shit, I don't know what I got.
Yo, I'm not even saying yo because I'm not thinking about it.
I like this one.
Well, well, well, water, ocean, waves, sky, fuck your mama, came in her eye.
Okay, see, now why does it always have to be fucking somebody's mama?
I don't know because I think about that because it's edible.
Okay, but look, but look, but look, but look, I'll stop you right there because you're doing something in a lot of freestyle raffer zoo.
Thank you.
It's called having a crutch.
Oh.
But like, but like, no, no, no, that's not, that wasn't meant to deflate.
Like mine used to be when I first started, mine used to be when I'm on the mic, right?
I love that.
It'd be like, my name is Mike Eagle.
When up on the mic, I say hi to people.
Like, you know what I mean?
Like, every fucking bar was that.
But that's some people doing yours happens to be fucking your mama.
Second verse, same as the first.
A little bit louder.
Well, my name's Chef Daniels and I'm here to say.
All right, well, so how do you deal with crutches?
Did you take a hacksaw to them?
Yeah, you become conscious of them and you just try not to.
But it's there for a reason because we do that to help us get, help us fill the time
between what we said and where we have to get to.
So, so like my therapist would say, she would say, when she takes me through meditation,
she says a thousand times your mind will wander a thousand times.
It can come back.
Bring it back.
So if I say fucked your mama, you guys don't start like booing and throwing chairs.
It's it's my mind.
I got back into the old habit, but and you know it and you become increasingly aware of the crutch.
Because what you'll do, you'll just find other ways to get to where you have to get with the timing
and you just won't say that particular thing every time.
All right.
By the year 2017.
It's now.
I'm not going to fuck anyone's mama in a rap.
Oh, rapping.
It's that easy, people.
It's that easy.
Salt, pepper, fork, spoon.
Oh, son of the moon.
I got a solar system that's going round and round.
I got my voice in my brain and the brain is the sound.
I got to flow through the rap.
I got to flow through the people.
Here's the motherfucking church and I don't go to the steeple because I go to the altar and I pray to God.
I drop down to my knees and I let him through my body.
I want to get down with you to the break of dawn.
Go, Mike.
Hey, he didn't fuck one mother in that at all.
No mother's reflection in the course of that rap.
Yeah, yeah.
No mother's who's fucked and no uppercuts.
Make bread like the company butternut with the squash.
How we do it when we wash them seeds?
They think they old when they come through getting washed.
Yeah, got to stop and take it back.
That's how we do it because the flow's never whacked.
But how we do it, that's another crush.
And you can go back to that one and try not to say it so much.
Yeah.
Yeah, not so much.
You don't do much and you don't do such.
If you don't do what you're supposed to do, then you do what you're going to do.
If you don't do what you're going to do, you do what you've always done.
I'm going to have fun and run in the sun.
I'm going to be on the beach and make another one of my buns by cooking it in an oven
and putting it in the shoving with my dick.
Okay.
Yeah.
You put your dick in the muffin if you want to.
Fuck the bread and prompt to.
Yeah.
That's how you got to do it.
That's how we do it when we make it to new music.
It's loose and see through your own brain patterns from here to Saturn.
It doesn't matter.
We can scatter.
Just like Scatagories.
And you can listen to this new rapping story.
What?
Oh, rapping.
Still like a table.
Put your mama.
What the fuck are you doing?
Alright.
Take it easy.
Go with the flow.
You're going to laugh at some things.
I'm going to go high and low.
I'm not thinking about what I'm saying anymore.
I'm going to, I'm praying for what I want to go through the door.
I want God to come in and light us up.
I want to suck the devil's dick and spit it up into the devil's face until he comes from his eyes.
I want to give you all a spiritual surprise.
I want to go up to heaven and pray to God.
I'm going to say everybody come down and General Zod's going to fight Superman, but he can't win.
It doesn't matter who he brings.
Superman's going to win.
He's going to shoot him with his laser eyes.
Christopher Reeves died.
We didn't want him to.
Oh, yeah.
That was a breakthrough.
That was a breakthrough for us.
That was great.
That was fucking great.
I want to Spencer to rap.
Spencer's not going to rap at all?
Yeah, Mike.
I'm not good at it.
You gave Dan like a, like you gave him freedom to like free fall a bit.
Yeah, man.
There's that feeling of abandonment.
That's right.
Yeah.
I feel like you need to come back every week so I can have therapy sessions like that.
I'll come back like two weeks.
Okay.
All right.
Well, we have technically a half hour left until the show ends when we usually end it.
We usually end it with a rap.
Well, I do actually perform rap songs professionally.
Yeah.
So if I could do...
This is a good time for a musical guest.
All right.
Like you.
I'm here.
Open my giggle.
How much should I do?
Should I just do...
I'll do very much money.
That's a great call.
I was going to do that anyway.
Does it make you nervous for me to be sitting here or should I go off stage?
No, no, no.
This is fine.
This is actually a very loving environment we've created.
And I really fucking appreciate it, man.
Yo.
Oh, sorry.
Sorry.
Yo, yo, oh, sorry, sorry.
I just need some help with the finances, but hello, my name is Mike Eagle.
How the fuck are you guys doing tonight?
What's up, guys?
Holy shit.